---
title: Update or roll back Power Automate for desktop
description: Learn how to update or roll back Power Automate for desktop and the machine runtime app. Address compatibility issues and manage updates seamlessly.
author: PetrosFeleskouras
ms.subservice: desktop-flow
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/06/2025
ms.author: pefelesk
ms.reviewer: dmartens
contributors:
  - PetrosFeleskouras
search.audienceType:
  - flowmaker
  - admin
ms.custom:
  - ai-gen-docs-bap
  - ai-gen-description
  - ai-seo-date:03/06/2025
---
# Update or roll back Power Automate for desktop

This article provides guidance on updating or rolling back Power Automate for desktop and the machine runtime app, and addresses compatibility concerns.

## Update Power Automate

Learn how to [install Power Automate](../install.md), including options for [silent installation](../install-silently.md). You can [manage manual updates and update notifications](../console.md#update-power-automate-for-desktop) through the [Power Automate for desktop console](../console.md) and the machine-runtime app.

To prevent users from manually updating Power Automate and receiving update notifications, a registry key is available. Learn more in [Prevent users manually updating Power Automate for desktop](../governance.md#prevent-users-manually-updating-power-automate-for-desktop).

### Backward compatibility

Power Automate maintains backward compatibility, ensuring that users who update to the latest version retain functionality and access to their previous work. Newer versions of the software are designed to operate seamlessly with desktop flows created with older versions.

Desktop flows are stored in the **Process** Dataverse table and aren't affected by software updates.  

Each desktop flow is associated with the version of Power Automate for desktop with which it was created or modified. To update a desktop flow version, edit and save it with a different software version.

> [!NOTE]
> Updating the flow properties doesn't change the flow version.

Determine the version associated with a desktop flow:

1. Sign in to the [Power Automate portal](https://make.powerautomate.com).
1. Select your environment.
1. Select **Tables** from the left navigation pane.
1. Change the table filter to **All** and search for the **Process** table.
1. Open the Process table and filter by **Category = Desktop Flow**.

The **clientversion** property in the **Metadata** column shows the last Power Automate for desktop version used to save the flow.

:::image type="content" source="media/update_power_automate/process_dataverse_table.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Process Dataverse table showing desktop flows and their metadata." lightbox="media/update_power_automate/process_dataverse_table.png":::

## Roll back Power Automate  

Rolling back Power Automate isn't supported. The latest version is always installed when you download using an [MSI installer](../install.md#install-power-automate-using-the-msi-installer) or from [Microsoft Store](../install.md#install-power-automate-from-microsoft-store).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> - If you require access to an older version for business continuity purposes, contact Microsoft Support.
> - To roll back Power Automate, you're required to uninstall the current version before installing the desired one.

### Forward compatibility

Forward compatibility with Power Automate isn't guaranteed. Updates, such as new features, product enhancements, and fixed functionalities, might not be supported by older versions. This can lead to potential compatibility issues.

Flows created or edited using a newer version of Power Automate might not work correctly if you try to edit or run them with an older version of the software. This scenario might result in the following error message:

`This flow has been generated by a newer Power Automate version than the one currently installed. Download and install the latest version of Power Automate and try again.`
