---
title: FAQ for generating a flow description using Copilot
description: This FAQ discusses the generating a flow description using Copilot feature in Power Automate for desktop and the key considerations for making use of this technology responsibly.
ms.date: 12/17/2024
ms.custom: 
  - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.topic: article
author: Cochamos
ms.author: cochamos
ms.reviewer: matp
ms.collection: 
    - bap-ai-copilot
---
# FAQ for generating a flow description using Copilot

These frequently asked questions (FAQ) describe the AI impact of generating flow descriptions using Copilot functionality in Power Automate for desktop.

## What is the generate flow description with Copilot capability?

Generate flow description with Copilot is a new AI capability that we added in the properties of desktop flows in both Power Automate for desktop and the desktop flows area in Power Automate (make.powerautomate.com). The feature is available by going to the flow details.

## What can the generate flow description with Copilot feature do?

Generate flow description with Copilot reads and analyzes the actions inside a flow and automatically creates a flow description. This feature saves the user valuable time from having to read through the whole flow to understand what it does.

## What is the generate flow description with Copilot intended use?

The intended use of the generate flow description using Copilot feature is for users to generate flow descriptions easily without having to go through the whole flow action by action to understand its functionality.

## How was generate description using Copilot evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

- The generate flow description with Copilot capability has been evaluated against real world scenarios in each phase of its design, development, and release. Using a combination of research and business impact studies, we’ve evaluated various quantitative and qualitative metrics about Copilot, including its accuracy, usefulness, and agent-trust.
- We have a robust set of metrics we're tracking to measure the performance of the model and resulting customer experience. We track the feature’s SLA to make sure it's always available to you. We track the telemetry of thumbs up and thumbs down gestures present in the UI experience for each AI output that you can submit feedback for.

## What are the limitations of the generate flow description with Copilot capability? How can users minimize the impact of the generate flow description with Copilot limitations when using the system?
  
- The generate flow description with Copilot capability is available to environments deployed in the following regions: Asia Pacific, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and United States.
- This capability is currently available only to users using a work or school account.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the generate flow description with Copilot capability?

You should always review the descriptions generated by the Copilot's generate flow description capability before saving the flow properties.
  
## Related information

- [Power Automate for desktop console](desktop-flows/console.md)
- [FAQ for Copilot data security and privacy in Microsoft Power Platform](/power-platform/faqs-copilot-data-security-privacy)
