---
title: Savings in Power Automate (preview)
description: Learn how your Power Automate cloud flows can generate savings to track the impact of your automation in terms of time and money saved.
author: cvassallo
ms.service: power-automate
ms.subservice: cloud-flow
ms.date: 05/19/2025
ms.author: cvassallo
ms.reviewer: angieandrews
ms.topic: article
---

# Savings in Power Automate (preview)

[!INCLUDE[cc-preview-features-top-note](./includes/cc-preview-features-top-note.md)]

The savings feature provides a way to calculate how much time and/or money a cloud flow is saving to your organization. You can add a user-defined saving rule to each cloud flow, which generates savings at successful cloud flow runs.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>- This is a preview feature.
>- Preview features aren’t meant for production use and have restricted functionality. These features are available before an official release so that customers can get early access and provide feedback.
>- For more information, go to our [preview terms](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2189520).
>- This feature is rolling out and might not be available in your area yet.
>- To try it out today, you can either use an existing preview environment or create a new one. Only preview environments in the US region and not in developer-type are supporting the feature. Learn how to create a preview environment in [Early release cycle environments](/power-platform/admin/early-release).

The savings feature adds two concepts to Power Automate, as indicated in the following table.

|Concept|Definition|
|----|-------------------------------------------|
|Saving rule|The artifact attached to the cloud flow, which bears the user-defined saving baselines.|
|Savings|The amount of time/money saved generated by the saving rule for the cloud flow.|

> [!NOTE]
>
> - Only solution-based cloud flows can bear saving rules.
> - Only successful runs generate savings (successful test runs don't).
> - Environment with Dataverse for Teams can't use the savings feature.

## Set up a saving rule

The saving rule can be defined on the cloud flow details page by selecting **Savings** in the page action bar. This opens the saving rule edition dialog.

:::image type="content" source="media/savings/savings-edition.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the saving rule edition screen.":::

|Saving rule|Definition|
|----|-------------------------------------------|
|Time-saving rule|Define the manual processing time it usually takes to manually perform the actions being automated. The saving can be generated either on every successful run, or once every hour/day/week if a successful run happened in that period.|
|Money-saving rule based on hourly rate|The money-saving rule can be based on an hourly rate converting time-savings in money-savings. This mode is only available if the time-saving rule is enabled.|
|Money-saving rule with user-defined baseline|Define the amount of money saved by the actions being automated. The saving can also be generated either on every successful run or once every hour/day/week if a successful run happened in that period.|

### Money-saving rule based on hourly rate

The money-savings generated are rounded and don't save decimals.

For example:
- You define a time-saving baseline of 1 hour and 15 minutes per successful run.
- You define a money-saving rule with an hourly rate of $1/hour.
- The money-saving associated should be $1.25 on a successful run but it is rounded to $1.

## When savings are generated

Once you save a saving-rule on a cloud flow, every successful run of this flow contributes to generate savings. However, the saving doesn't immediately generate after the successful run. A periodic update of the saving amount for the cloud flow performs automatically. It can take up to one hour for a run to be accounted for in the savings amount of its cloud flow.

## Track the savings generated by your cloud flow

You can visualize the saving generated by a cloud flow on the flow details page.

:::image type="content" source="media/savings/savings-card.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a savings card on cloud flow.":::

If you select the savings-card **See trend** link, you access the **Automation Center** savings pane. This is where you can track the saving trend of this flow and all other flows.

:::image type="content" source="media/savings/savings-automation-center.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a savings in Automation Center.":::

## Permissions required to view and edit saving-rules

To view and edit a saving-rule, you need a security role with privileges to the **Saving Rule** and the **Flow Aggregation** tables. For example, the Environment Maker role can view and edit saving-rules on its cloud flows.

## Frequently asked questions

### Why is the hourly rate mode disabled in the money-rule section?

The money-rule can only use the hourly rate mode if the time-saving rule is enabled.

### Why is the money rule entirely disabled?

Your environment administrator blocked the usage of money rule in the environment. Money-saving generated before the administrator decision remains unchanged, but no new money-savings is generated.

